So really, that's caused no problem. And I think
you'll see a higher percentage of women coming
into reserve program and the Air Force in general
in the future than you have in the past. Are there
some parallels between women coming into the
military and the reserves and women being allowed
here at A&M back in the 1960s? I don't really see
any. Well, it's parallels as far as attitudes,
initial resistance, which has changed. Oh, OK. I
would presume so. I would presume so. But here,
once again, after you get used to the idea and you
see that it's going to work, then you accept it. So
there could be some parallels there, but I never
thought of it in that context. OK. Let's talk. I'd
like to talk. I went over a number of your
appointments. and duties here. And I'd like to
talk about the development of the Air Force
Reserve in the Bryan College Station area. It
looks like there was the 9807 ARS and then the 9412
ARS. Could you explain that development? I think
at that particular time, that was more or less a
change in designation of an activity more than an
actual change in the mission or scope of the
activity. They were shuffling numbers like mad
back in those times. But as I recall, I don't recall
there being any particular change. I will say that
in all of those time periods, the reserve program
was nothing more than not much more than a paper
exercise and paperwork. We had no equipment. We
had very little realistic training. Our training
consisted of taking correspondence courses in
particular areas and trying to keep up what we call
our general military training. There are certain
things that we have to go through annually, such as
The Uniform Code of Military Justice, we have to be
familiar with that, not only so that we can watch
other people, but so that we ourselves will know
how to conduct ourselves under certain
circumstances.
Things like communication security that we have
to review every year to refresh on our minds that
there are certain things you don't talk about on
the telephone. Those types of things, we were able
to get those out of the way. But as far as real gut
training, to qualify us to go into an active duty
situation. It was almost nonexistent in those
days. Now, let's clarify. When were those days?
When was the first Air Force Reserve unit in this
area? I don't know, because it was here before I
came in. I went into the Air Force Reserves in this
area in about 1960 or 61, as I recall. After I got off
of active duty in 1956, I was living in the Waco
area. and was assigned to a couple of units up in
that area. They were larger units, but they were
primarily, once again, where we would meet and do
the best we could with correspondence courses and
lectures and talks. But we had no field training.
We had no airplanes. We had no equipment. When I
came from Waco here in probably 1959, 1960, in that
time frame, I immediately aligned with a reserve
unit here locally, and I've even forgotten the
number, but it would be the first unit that we had.
9807. 9807, yes, okay. I found the same conditions
to be true here that existed in Waco, and that is no
equipment. We, of course, all of us wore uniforms,
and we spent a great deal of time on military
courtesy and chain of command, span of control,
all those kinds of things that are basic to any
organization, military or otherwise. We had the
nucleus. We had the people that wanted to do it.
And then after that, I really guess when the thing
turned around for me, and when the reserves turned
around, and you can find the date on it, was my first
duty assignment at Ellington Air Force Base. And I
believe that was in the 9-25th? That was 9-25th.
Tag at Ellington. Any of these initials you need me
to clarify for you, I can do that. That's Tactical
Airlift Group. They had 119s. That was the first
unit I was ever in. 1967 to 1969. They had real
airplanes, and they would fly. And I'd never been
in a unit that had airplanes before. From that
point, it got better and better and better until
today. Our airplanes will match active-duty
airplanes any day of the week. as far as quality of
maintenance and flyability and the people that
know how to fly them and how to fight. In other
words, from 1967 on down, you've been getting new
airplanes? No. No. Are you getting the airplanes
that come from the active duty and they decided
they get the new ones and you get their sort of
hand-me-downs? We have an Air Force base in
Arizona near Phoenix called Davis-Monthan Air
Force Base. It's otherwise known as the Boneyard
of the Air Force. When the Air Force can no longer
fly an airplane, they send it to the boneyard. You
use it for spare parts or for whatever. Well,
instead of sending it to Davis-Monthan, when they
couldn't get another mile out of it, then they gave
it to the reserves, and then we'd squeeze some more
miles out of it. That was the beginning. That's the
way the 119s worked. When about did that start?
That's a significant change. That happened
probably in about 19... 1958, 1959, when we
started getting those kinds of airplanes. Now
here, once again, I'm relying strictly on my
memory. That's fine. Now, I could be off 10 years
one way or the other. But this is when I first had
knowledge of it, to put it that way. But then, we've
always gotten our equipment from the active duty.
As they would get better equipment, we'd get their
older equipment. But the quality of the equipment
we get has constantly improved So that now, for
example, in Vietnam and since then, the F-4 has
been one of our primary fighter aircraft, fighter
bombers, primarily a fighter. All of our units
have F-4s now. Now, the F-105 was the plane we had
prior to that, which was an excellent airplane,
still an excellent airplane. But the F-4 is coming
in to take its place. Plus, we've got a unit at Hill
Air Force Base now.
getting F-16s right off the assembly line,
getting ready to. So now the reserve groups are
getting brand new equipment. It's never been
flown before. And is that since the Reagan
administration? Yes. Is that part of the changes,
do you think, of the Reagan administration? Part
of the increasing defense expenditure? I would
say that it's a result of the overall realization
that we cannot afford from a fiscal standpoint to
maintain the kind of active duty air force that we
need to defend the country. But we recognize that
we have to have certain squares filled in order to
be able to support our various war plans. And so if
you don't have the money to support those war plans
with active duty forces, then you spend the money
on the reserves because you can maintain a group or
a wing of reserve aircraft at a fraction of the cost
that it would cost to maintain an active duty
outfit because of the fact that they work all day
every day. Sure. Of course, your primary cost,
once you get the equipment cost behind you, you've
got to have the equipment, whether it's active
duty or reserve. But then once you put that to one
side, then your payroll cost is your biggest
single cost. And of course, the reservist
paycheck is a fraction of what an active duty
paycheck would be. But yet, he can meet the same
standards, the same flying criteria, can fill the
same square in a war plane that an active duty guy
can fill. So that's why the shift. It's a matter of
we can't afford the kind of active duty force we
really need. Therefore, this is the alternative
we're accepting. I think it would have come no
matter who the president had been. We got a bigger
pie, but the pie is not big enough, so the reserves
are getting a bigger piece of the bigger pie. Oh,
OK. OK. So the Air Force itself has come to this
realization. Oh, yes. Yes. It's referred to
primarily as a total force policy. And that is a
major concept. The active duty have always, it's
almost like the acceptance of minorities or
women. They've always kind of looked down their
nose at reservists as being second-class
citizens.
Because back in the old days, when we were called
the ragtag militia, uniforms were tattered the
haircuts were bad shoes were you know well those
are personal things it was all taken work real hard
at improving the image of the reservist and it's
paid off i think the active duty force looks at us as
an equal partner in the defense establishment as
opposed to a second class group of citizens and so
that's why those of us in positions to to manage
other people when we find, especially at the full
colonel position and above, we look at our people
much more severely properly than anyone else does
to make sure that when we put a guy in a full
colonel's position or in a BG position that he's
going to be a credit to the rest of us. Now tell me
about this total forest policy. When did it become
a volunteer? I would say Once again, I'm going to
have to pull a figure out of the air. Sure. But I
would say the total force policy has been
established as an official policy of the Air
Force, Department of the Air Force, for
approximately 10 years, 8 to 10 years. It's a
relatively new concept.
All the total force policy does is to recognize the
reserve forces as an integral part of the defense
establishment and as an integral part in
supporting our war plans. Always before, the war
plans were supported exclusively by the active
duty forces. Now the reserves are plowed right in
and cranked right in to the requirements to
support war plans. So that if we execute plan
so-and-so and it calls for so many F4 units, bang,
they're activated and there they go, just like an
active duty outfit. That's fantastic.
Interesting. Yeah, it sure is interesting. I want
to talk about the change and the status of the local
Air Force Reserve units. We started this
conversation a little bit ago about the history of
it. How has it changed? And what's the chain of
command? If a young man wants to get into the Air
Force Reserve here, what's the chain of command
today? And what's the status? Actually, at the
time I went to Ellington Air Force Base was when the
local Air Force Reserve unit was phased out. We
have no local Air Force Reserve units here in the
College Station Bryan area. And since then, the
Ellington Air Force Base unit has been
transferred to Bergstrom Air Force Base at
Austin, Texas. There is no Air Force Reserve unit
in Houston, the largest metropolitan area in the
United States, without an Air Force Reserve unit.
Now, let me back up and say one thing that needs to be
said. When I'm talking about Air Force Reserve,
well, there are two terms that let me clarify.
There's what we call Air Reserve Forces. When you
hear the term Air Reserve Forces, you're talking
about Air Force Reserves and Air National Guard.
That's the Air Reserve Forces is all of the Reserve
Forces. Now, I've not talked about Guard because I
know very little about the Air Force National
Guard, the Air National Guard. As you know, during
peacetime, they're under the jurisdiction of the
governor of the various states. During wartime,
they're nationalized, then they become a
national resource. The guard units are plowed
into the warplanes just the way Air Force Reserve
units are. They do have an Air National Guard unit
in Houston, but not an Air Force Reserve unit. So if
a young man wanted to get in the Air Force Reserve
here, chances are his best bet would be at Austin.
Now, we... The... United States is divided up into
what we call three numbered air forces. They're
not geographical areas. They're divided up by
weapon systems. There's a fourth air force, which
is a numbered air force commanded by a two-star
reserve general located at Sacramento,
California, at McClellan Air Force Base. There's
10th Air Force, which is commanded also, all these
are commanded by two-star generals. As I
mentioned, it was the highest rank that an air
force reservist can hold under present law at
Bergstrom Air Force Base. And then there's 14th
Air Force, which is,
what is, my mind's gone blank on where the 14th Air
Force is located. Oh, we can fill it in later. Okay,
it'll come to me. But in any event, those air forces
primarily are divided up by weapons systems. Now
the 4th and the 14th on the west coast and the east
coast primarily have tactical airlift aircraft.
In other words, they have the C-130s. Basically,
the C-130 is their airplane right now for hauling
things. The 14th has things east of the
Mississippi. The 4th has things west of the
Mississippi, all the units in those areas.
Whereas 10th Air Force, the headquarters at
Bergstrom Air Force Base, the one I was assigned to
for so many years, well, previously it was at
Ellington called Central Air Force Reserve
Region. It was transferred to Bergstrom and
re-designated 10th Air Force. has all the
fighters and aircraft that are primarily gained
by tactical air command. Also, we have all the
aircraft that are gained by strategic air
command, which includes your KC-135 tankers.
We're getting into the KC-10 tanker now at
Barksdale Air Force Base. All those assets are
gained by strategic air command. 10th Air Force
had responsibility for those units. Do you have
any B-1 bombers? No, no B-1s online yet. Do you have
any B-52s? No, not in the reserve program. KC-135
is the tanker, which is a refueler for the B-52s.
It's the heaviest thing we've gotten into yet. Do
you think eventually you'll all get some bombers?
It's hard to say. Strategic Air Command... has
such a quick response time in the matter of minutes
that I'm not sure reservists will ever man the
bombers at B-52. That's absolutely true. Because
we have to respond in 24 hours. SAC can't live with
that kind of response. No, absolutely. It's 25
minutes from Moscow to . That's right. That's
true. But I really don't think you'll ever see any
reserve
bomber crews. There was a lot of hesitancy on
whether we could ever handle a reserve tanker
operation, but that seemed to be working
relatively well because you've got more lead time
on tankers than you have on bombers and what have
you. But if someone in this area wanted to get in the
reserve program, he would go to Berkshire Air
Force Base. Now, 10th Air Force is the
headquarters command. It's a giant paper mill. It
has no airplanes itself. It manages a lot of units
all over the United States that have airplanes.
One of the units, the 924th, used to be the 924th
Tactical Airlift Group. I don't know what the new
designation was. They've renumbered it since I
was there. It is located at Bergstrom Air Force
Base. So that would be the place for a young man to
go. Now, every base has what they call a reserve, an
air reserve management officer, an ARMO.
Basically, he's usually a master sergeant. our
senior master sergeant, and he kind of keeps an eye
on all the reserve slots on that base. So it's a
single point of contact that a young man can go say,
hey, I live over at Collin Station. I'm interested
in getting a reserve program. Is there anything
here for me? He knows where all the vacancies are,
what all the skill requirements are, and he can
help place individuals that have an interest in
it. I'm wondering about the relationship that you
have with the Air National Guard. Very little.
That's right. At our level. Now, at the air staff
level, the two-star general in charge of the
National Guard, General Conaway, General John
Conaway, and our boss, General Sandy Gill, Air
Force Reserve General, probably live together.
They're together all the time. But below that
level, we don't really have much to do with each
other. Our paths just don't cross that much. Is
there friction between the two groups? No, not
really. Not really. Well, I've heard that, or I
have heard from some reservists, that while they
are National Guard, they're just a bunch of
political appointee types, and they're not
really the military, and they're just good old
boys. Would you respond to them? I will say that the
National Guard has a tremendous political impact
on this nation, more so than the Reserves.
primarily because of the fact that they can exert
pressure through the various governors of the
state. I think it's a matter that
they've just been at it longer than we have, and
they've honed to perfection
their abilities to muster political force when
it's needed.
Obviously, the military is prohibited from
participating in any political activity. But
when we're wearing our civilian clothes, like
today, we're civilians, and we can call our
congressman, ride the president, do whatever we
want to as civilians. And we can express an
interest in things pertaining to the military,
whereas an active duty guy cannot do that. So I
think the active duty force recognizes the
reserve as the only shot they have at playing
politics. They don't use that in a direct way. But
through our knowing and our proximity to the
military and knowing what some of our crying needs
are, there's nothing that prevents us as
individuals of picking up a phone and calling our
congressman or when Phil Graham comes to town to
see him and say, boy, we sure need some support and
some aircraft spares because we're hurting bad.
Well, that brings up an interesting point, the
active duty people. perhaps using or mobilizing
the reservists to put pressure on Washington. Is
there, without naming names, of course, has there
been in your career any attempt for active duty
officers to say, OK, you reservists, maybe at your
two-week camp or something like that, OK, you
reservists, go home and write your congressman
about this or that? Has there ever been any
examples like that? I've never heard of it
happening. And in fact, the active duty goes out of
its way to make sure that that never happens
because it's not proper.
Now, that's not to say that a lot of reservists
don't do exactly the things that the active duty
would like to see us do. But it's not done at the
request or at the direction of the active duty.
It's a self-initiated thing that reservists see a
need because of their proximity to the situation.
and try to do something about it in their civilian
capacity. Yeah, I wouldn't think that would be.
Now, let's talk a little bit about the
relationship between the Air Force Reserve in the
state and the Army Reserve in the state. Is there
much of a relationship there? No. As long as I've
been in the Reserve Program, I know absolutely
nothing about the Army Reserve Program. I know a
bunch of individuals that are in the local Army
Reserve. Lynn Stewart, for example, is a good
friend of mine. Sure. Kent Potts and Ronnie Hale
and a few people like that that are close personal
friends of mine. But we've never talked about the
Reserve program together other than the fact that
we recognize and respect the fact that we're
making a contribution in our own way. But I've
never had an interface at all with any Army Reserve
outfits at all. No Army Reservations? no Army
Reserve units than I've ever gone out with Air
Force Reserve units on any type of maneuvers. Not
to my knowledge. The only interface we've ever had
is that we do furnish airlift support for some
paratroop drops periodically, but we're
basically flying the platform that they jump off
of is what it amounts to. But I've never been
involved personally with any of that. I know that
it happens all the time, but as far as any joint
maneuvers or anything like that. I've never been
involved with it.
Let's talk a little bit about the Volunteer Army.
That must have had an impact on the reserves. It
did.
I would say that,
well, once the draft was eliminated, our number of
applicants dropped pretty drastically because
as we mentioned yesterday, that a number of people
are inclined to prefer to serve their country in
the reserve rather than to run the risk of being
drafted. Even though the risk is relatively
small, the risk was there. And some of them didn't
choose to take the risk. The minute the draft was
dropped and it became all volunteer, then there
was not the threat of the draft. So therefore, they
didn't need to seek an alternative. So it had a
definite impact on our recruiting. I would say
that the impact was relatively short lived.
I sense, and I think I've talked to a number of other
people that sense, that there's a kind of a rebirth
of nationalism in this country, that there seems
to be almost a wave of patriotism sweeping the
country that's been absent for a long time. I think
it's kind of a digging out the quagmire of Vietnam.
At the time, the Vietnamese situation was going
and up to and immediately after the cessation of
hostilities, I would say that the military was at
an all-time low in this country in the eyes of the
citizen on the street. It was almost an insult to be
in a uniform. I've been in airports and in public
places in my uniform where people would people
would drive by in the car and yell obscenities to
you. No kidding. Instead of being- Was that at the
end of the war? Early 70s? Yeah, in that time
period. As a result, we're encouraged never to
wear a uniform, especially a general officer
never wears a uniform when he's going public
transportation or what have you. No kidding. We
always go in civilian clothes because, first of
all- That's a response? That's a response of the
post-Vietnam era? That- plus the increasing
instance of terrorism. Now, not so much in this
country, but overseas. You've made the General
Dozier instance and things of that type. They
don't like you to play up the fact that you're a
general officer. In fact, I've worn this pin ever
since my little tie pin with my star ever since I was
promoted. Most of the general officers have a
bumper sticker on the car with the number of stars
that you're entitled to. First of all, because
they give you preferred parking places at certain
places, like from the officer's club, you know,
you've got a reserved general officer, little
bennies that go with it. But they're even talking
now about eliminating those because they don't
want you to be known as a general officer because of
the potential for terrorist kidnapping or what
have you. What does that do to morale? Well, you
know, it's kind of... I mean, you've worked this
long, and now you can't even wear your uniform.
That really hasn't come into being yet. There's
just some talk about it. I do know that they've
issued bumper stickers now with the capital
letter G on it instead of the star. Of course, it
doesn't take very many brains to figure out what
the G stands for.
But it's not critical in this country, but in an
overseas assignment, you have to assume that
someone's trying to kill you or kidnap you all the
time if you're a general officer. And it's not a bad
assumption because it's true in a lot of places.
Yeah. But here, when you're on public
transportation, here, do you wear your uniform
when you don't? No. And that's Air Force
directive? Well, it's Air Force policy. I don't
think there's anything in writing. It's just that
when we have meetings, and we have meetings twice a
year of all Air Force Reserve general officers,
And they're mirrors almost of some of the active
duty general officer meetings that they have.
We're told that it's Air Force policy that you not
travel in your military uniform on public
conveyance. And when you travel in military
aircraft, of course, then you have to have on
uniform. But if you're riding public
transportation, airplanes, trains, buses, you
never travel in uniform. They even discourage
full colonels from doing it. But general
officers, you just don't do it. And it's because of
the fact that you're going to get heckled by
certain elements, not so much now as immediately
right after the Vietnamese. But you know, it's
almost unbelievable that someone in the uniform
of their country, trying to serve their country,
would be heckled for having that uniform on. I
know. But it happens. I know.
It's incredible, just a little aside here. But as I
mentioned, that's when we hit rock bottom. And I
think it's continued to improve since then. And I
think that this country is on the verge of giving a
lot of respect and having a lot of patriotic fervor
that we've not had for years. I think that Reagan
has really got his hands full on what he's going to
do in Central and South America. I think that
without any question in my mind, the threat in
Central and South America is at least as
substantial as Nazi Germany's threat during the
Second World War and maybe worse because of its
proximity to our country. To me, that threat far
overshadows anything that Korea or Vietnam could
have ever done to us. To me, this is the single most
serious threat to our survival as a country that I
can imagine. And yet we've got people in Congress
right now that are saying, let those people work
out their own problems. And it just doesn't work
that way. Well, let's talk a little bit more about
the draft and the volunteer army. And you have to
forgive me for chasing these rabbits when they
come. Oh, that's fine. I want your ideas and your
opinions. I want your ideas on the draft. Do you
think that we should reinstate the draft? Without
any question, I'd do it before noon today if I had
the authority. I see no reason why a certain
segment of our society should defend this country
and another segment, because of their affluence,
never have to do it. I think that people from all
walks of life should serve this country equally,
either voluntarily or if they have to be made to do
it, then let's make them do it. But we all know that
the people in the lower economic stratus make up
the bulk of the military. By the same token, you
don't have that vast cross-section and the
thinking and the expertise of a good
cross-section of the country that we had during
the draft. You've got a distorted view of what the
world's all about because you're drawing from
only one segment of the society. And I'm speaking
primarily of the enlisted corps now. The officer
corps, I think, you've got a pretty good cross
section. The officer corps is pretty well
educated, more so than the regular society,
because you've got to have a college degree. And I
would say that with rare exceptions, you'll never
see anybody reach the rank of full colonel or above
without a master's degree. For general officers,
it's becoming more common that you have a PhD to
become a general officer. And I don't have one, but
I think in the future, That's almost going to be
part of one of the squares to fill. But I don't think
you'll ever see a full colonel, very many full
colonels in the future without a master's degree.
To me, this relates fairly well with what happens
in the civilian segment of our society, not so in
the enlisted grades. So back to your original
question, I can't tell you how strongly I feel that
we should reinstate the draft, even in peacetime.
Now, it sounds to me that you see the draft more as
Oh,
something to increase the amount of citizenship.
Absolutely. I think it's a civic responsibility
to defend this country. And you also see it in
class, as far as class terms. That is, the middle
and the upper middle class. And upper class is a
college, a suburban class. They don't have to
serve, but others do. And you think that's unfair.
I think it's unfair in that, first of all, I think
every citizen has an obligation to do their share.
But second of all, I think once people get into the
military, that they themselves get something
from it. I think those people are being deprived of
the privilege of serving their country. And so I
know a lot of people that say, boy, I would have
never volunteered for that, but I'm sure glad I had
the experience. And so you put someone in the
position where they have to perform, and then
later on, they're proud they had the experience.
And they would not have done it had they not been
made to do it. But I think that there's just no
question whatsoever in my mind of, first of all, us
having a better military if we did it that way.
Because even if a guy doesn't want to do something,
if he's placed in a position, most people can do the
best they can with what they've got. And so I think
that not only would we have a better military, But I
think you'd have more patriotism in this country
because more people would be touched with it in a
direct basis. Wealthy families may go for
generations without ever having a member of their
family ever serve a day in the military. That's
criminal. What a privilege that they've missed.
What about women? Do you think women in America
should also serve in the military? In today's
environment, I do. I think they should be drafted
right along with men. And here, once again, you've
got the question of who you draft. But we've always
had that question, and it worked relatively well.
You register everyone. And the lottery wasn't a
bad way to do it. At least you get a good cross
section. I feel that whether anybody wants to
admit it or not, there are differences between men
and women. I think in combat situations where you
are living off the land without any latrine
facilities or anything like that, it would be a
mistake to put women into a combat situation. But
there are lots of ways they can serve without being
in the trenches on the front lines. In other words,
do you agree with old Harry Truman's idea of the
universal military training, that everyone,
when they turn a certain age, 18 or 19, should have a
year or two of some sort of service to the country?
Or do you think that's too broad and too expensive?
I would like to see it, but I think from a practical
standpoint that that would be too expensive. I
feel that everyone should register, that there
possibly should be a certain amount of
indoctrination required in conjunction with
that registration, maybe a half a day of some very
basics about what our country is all about. And
then if they're fortunate enough or unfortunate
enough, depending on how they view it, to be
selected for the draft, then I think that should be
done. so that you've got a good cross-section of
this country defending the country. And not only
that individual, but also the impact that
individual has on his immediate family and his
neighbors and friends and what have you. There are
parts of Houston that you could go into and
probably go for 40 houses, and they don't have
anybody in the military and never have had anybody
in the military since the draft. It's not right.
So... You probably didn't want to know that. I want
all that. As a matter of fact, I have very similar
feelings. Being a veteran, I have very similar
feelings on that. And I want to know this. There's
another thing that I'd like to know. Sometimes,
especially during the Vietnamese War, a lot of
journalists said that there was such a thing as a
military mentality. That was usually the term
they used, that there was a way that the military
thinks about it. Well, you're both in an
institution and you're in another institution,
the military, and I was wondering what you
thought. Is there such a thing as a military
mentality, and if so, what is it? I would think that
if there is such a thing, that it would be a normal
outgrowth of having been in a profession for a
number of years in which you tend to accept the
policies that are established by the military
establishment as your own policies. I don't mean
that people follow the party line right down to the
nth degree, but chances are,
Just like here, if Dr. Vannevar wants to do
something, I don't have any strong objections not
to do it, well then I adopt that as my policy because
I'm supporting Dr. Vannevar and his ideas. The
same thing is true in the military. I would say that
you wouldn't find any difference in the military
way of responding to suggestions and policies
adopted by their superiors than you would find in
the civilian sector. OK. And I wanted to ask you
another question on that, as far as advancement.
You've advanced substantially in both the
military and in university. And before that, you
were for Sears and Roebuck. Now I'm wondering, and
for a while you even had your own company. I'm
wondering if it's the same type
characteristics that make someone a success in
the military as in private or in public
institutions? Absolutely. I don't think there's
any difference. I think it's a situation of
learning a skill, filling the squares, doing the
job. But to me, I think that success in private
business, success within a corporate structure,
or success in the military, assuming that you're
doing the technical side of your job, is primarily
a matter of attitude and personality, human
relations. Those things are 80% of it. Only 20% of
it is skill and knowledge, in my opinion. And
that's true in the military or wherever you go.
When you think back on your career, which of course
isn't completed yet, but when you think back on it,
do you see yourself now as ambitious?
That's a hard one. Sure is. I don't see myself as
ambitious for ambition's sake to attain a
certain, in other words, I've never had the
ambition to be a two-star general for the sake of
just saying, look at me, I'm a two-star general.
I'm ambitious from the point that I like
responsibility. I like accomplishing work. I
like delegating and working through people. And
I'd be less than honest if I didn't say that I like a
certain amount of authority to be able to direct
things and make things happen that I think should
happen. But as a result of doing these things, if
promotions and recognition come as a result, then
that's great. But that's not the primary goal. The
goal is to do something, hopefully that would be a
benefit to whatever organization I'm talking
about, whether it be the military, whether it be
Texas A&M, whether it be my church, whether it be my
family. Do the best you can with the jobs at hand,
and then if recognition and promotions come, well
and good. Well, did you leave on the way up the
ladder then to success, did you leave that
advancement to fate or luck, or do you think that
that advancement was because you accomplished
those individual tasks? I think I think the
accomplishment of individual tasks was only part
of it. I think the secret to my advancement and the
secret to almost anyone's advancement
has a whole lot to do with proximity to power
sources, knowing people that are in a position to
promote you, knowing people that are in a position
to recommend you for certain jobs, doing a job that
they become aware of, whether it's from their own
initiative or whether you make sure that they are
aware of what you're doing. I have no big hang up
with blowing your own horn, as long as it's done for
the proper motives and as long as it's honest and
true. As long as you're not inflating yourself.
That's right. That's right. Of course, we're on
another thin sheet of ice here. That's true. On
what is the question between realistically
saying, here's what I have achieved, and then
inflating what you've done and boasting. That's
right. It's a matter of personal
integrity as to whether you do that or not. Chances
are you could. But almost always, when you inflate
something, it's going to catch up with you. And our
superiors should see it. That's true. But I would
think that not being afraid to speak up, to
introduce yourself six, eight, 10 times if
necessary, until somebody learns your name. I got
real tickled at the last board meeting. I was to
give a report to the board on the parking
conditions over and around the vet college. And
I've only been a vice president since last
October, so I don't know all the board. Well, I know
all the board members, but they all don't know me.
So I've had a great deal of difficulty in the few
times that they are on campus for them to learn my
name. And most of them know my face and know that I'm
connected with the physical plant in some way or
the police, but they don't know my name. So
finally, I'd introduce myself to Mr.
Joe Richardson, who's the chairman of our
building committee a number of times, and just a
super guy. And so it came to my part on the program.
He says, OK. He says, I've asked Dr. Vandiver to put
together a report on parking conditions and a
petition that some of the vet students had put
together for us. And he says, and he's asked Chuck
to give the report. And I thought, thank goodness.
Boy, he finally learned my name. He says, and now to
give the report is Chuck McCandless. So I thought,
well, I'm halfway home. So Dr. Vandiver corrected
him. And then he later on told me he's sure sorry
that he tried to remember my name as Cargill. But
anyway. There's all the board members sitting
around, so I'll probably be Chuck McCandless to
them for the rest of their life because, of course,
Chuck has appeared before the board a number of
times. But name recognition is so important.
Letting people know that you want to do what you can
to help them with their programs. If you can help
enough other people get what they want, then
you'll get what you want. It's a service-oriented
type philosophy, but you've also got to be a little
bit pushy in letting people know that, Hey, if
there's something else I can do to help you with
that, let me know. Be willing to accept the
responsibility and help the guy with his
problems, and he'll love you for it. And he'll
promote you for it. And it's something that you're
accomplishing your objectives to, and that's to
be of more service to whatever organization it may
be. I want to talk about that and accomplishments.
When you look back on your career in the military,
and of course this is a question that's premature
because you might be at the point of your career
where you're going to have the most impact on the
Air Force. But when you look back at your career,
what do you see as accomplishments
in the reserves? And I also want you to think, was
there anything that you thought were
shortcomings? I would think that probably the
period of time, not a specific instance, but a
period of time in which a number of things happened
that I point to with pride more than just about any
other, was the time that I served as a full colonel
at 10th Air Force Headquarters as Director of
Logistics Plan for the 10th Air Force. During that
period of time, we performed what we call staff
assistance visits to our units, which were all
over the United States. We had put together a team
from the headquarters. And as a full colonel, I was
frequently the team chief, which is another way of
saying the highest-ranking guy in charge of the
team. Anywhere from 20 to 40 people would come on an
airplane, and we'd go visit our units. They called
them inspections, and that's really what they
were. But we didn't like the word inspection. We
called them staff assistance visits. And they say
the two biggest lies ever told in the Air Force is
when the team gets off, the team chief said, we're
here to help you, and the guy that you're visiting
said, we're glad to see you. And those are the two
biggest lies I've ever told. But anyway. But
during that period of time, when I was team chief,
visiting these units all over the United States, I
consider that to be my most productive time as far
as making a contribution. Because, of course,
those of us that were specialists in certain areas
could go in and look at their records, look at their
programs, look at their in-commission rates and
so forth. check some of their supplies to see how
long it's been since certain wear date items like
rubber can't stay in a kit too long because it gets
hard and you've got to replace it. And those kinds
of things, I feel we've really made a contribution
toward the readiness of the reserve program. But I
look at that as my most productive time as far as
making a contribution. When you become a general
officer, you've got to define the word general. It
means a general officer as opposed to a specialist
officer. Up to that point, you're a specialist in
some field. You become a general officer. You
could be in personnel. You could be in supply. You
could be anywhere. Because supposedly, you have a
broad enough concept of the entire picture, the
big picture, that you could fit in anywhere. And
the active Air Force uses its people that way, too.
My boss right now at Tinker Air Force Base was at SAC
headquarters. Never has spent one day in supply,
but yet he's a commander of one of the largest
supply and maintenance operations in the entire
world.